.\" -*- coding: us-ascii -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH db2x_manxml 1 "3 March 2007" "docbook2X 0.8.8" docbook2X
.SH NAME
db2x_manxml \- Make man pages from Man-XML
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad l
\fBdb2x_manxml\fR \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIxml-document\fR]
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
'hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdb2x_manxml\fR converts a Man-XML document into one or 
more man pages. They are written in the current directory.
.PP
If \fIxml-document\fR is not given, then the document
to convert is read from standard input. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-encoding=\fR\*(T>\fIencoding\fR
Select the character encoding used for the output files.
The available encodings are those of 
\fBiconv\fR(1). 
The default encoding is \*(T<us\-ascii\*(T>. 

The XML source may contain characters that are not representable in the encoding that
you select; in this case the program will bomb out during processing, and you should 
choose another encoding.
(This is guaranteed not to happen with any Unicode encoding such as 
UTF-8, but unfortunately not everyone is able to 
process Unicode texts.)

If you are using GNU\(cqs version of 
\fBiconv\fR(1), you can affix 
\*(T<//TRANSLIT\*(T> to the end of the encoding name
to attempt transliterations of any unconvertible characters in the output.
Beware, however, that the really inconvertible characters will be turned
into another of those damned question marks. (Aren\(cqt you sick of this?)

The suffix \*(T<//TRANSLIT\*(T> applied
to a Unicode encoding \(em in particular, \*(T<utf\-8//TRANSLIT\*(T> \(em
means that the output files are to remain in Unicode,
but markup-level character translations using \fButf8trans\fR 
are still to be done. So in most cases, an English-language
document, converted using 
\*(T<\fB\-\-encoding=\fR\*(T>\*(T<\fButf\-8//TRANSLIT\fR\*(T>
will actually end up as a US-ASCII document,
but any untranslatable characters 
will remain as UTF-8 without any warning whatsoever.
(Note: strictly speaking this is not \(lqtransliteration\(rq.)
This method of conversion is a compromise over strict
\*(T<\fB\-\-encoding=\fR\*(T>\*(T<\fBus\-ascii\fR\*(T>
processing, which aborts if any untranslatable characters are 
encountered.

Note that man pages and Texinfo documents 
in non-ASCII encodings (including UTF-8)
may not be portable to older (non-internationalized) systems,
which is why the default value for this option is 
\*(T<us\-ascii\*(T>.

To suppress any automatic character mapping or encoding conversion
whatsoever, pass the option 
\*(T<\fB\-\-encoding=\fR\*(T>\*(T<\fButf\-8\fR\*(T>.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-list\-files\fR\*(T>
Write a list of all the output files to standard output,
in addition to normal processing.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-output\-dir=\fR\*(T>\fIdir\fR
Specify the directory where the output files are placed.
The default is the current working directory.

This option is ignored if the output is to be written
to standard output (triggered by the 
option \*(T<\fB\-\-to\-stdout\fR\*(T>).
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-to\-stdout\fR\*(T>
Write the output to standard output instead of to individual files.

If this option is used even when there are supposed to be multiple
output documents, then everything is concatenated to standard output.
But beware that most other programs will not accept this concatenated
output.

This option is incompatible with \*(T<\fB\-\-list\-files\fR\*(T>,
obviously.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-help\fR\*(T>
Show brief usage information and exit.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-version\fR\*(T>
Show version and exit.
.PP
Some man pages may be referenced under two or more
names, instead of just one. For example, 
\fBstrcpy\fR(3)
and
\fBstrncpy\fR(3)
often point to the same man page which describes the two functions together.
Choose one of the following options to select
how such man pages are to be generated:
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-symlinks\fR\*(T>
For each of all the alternate names for a man page,
erect symbolic links to the file that contains the real man page content.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-solinks\fR\*(T>
Generate stub pages (using \*(T<.so\*(T> roff requests)
for the alternate names, pointing them to the real man page content.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-no\-links\fR\*(T>
Do not make any alternative names available.
The man page can only be referenced under its principal name.
.PP
This program uses certain other programs for its operation.
If they are not in their default installed locations, then use
the following options to set their location:
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-utf8trans\-program=\fR\*(T>\fIpath\fR, \*(T<\fB\-\-utf8trans\-map=\fR\*(T>\fIcharmap\fR
Use the character map \fIcharmap\fR
with the \fButf8trans\fR(1) program, included with docbook2X, found
under \fIpath\fR.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-\-iconv\-program=\fR\*(T>\fIpath\fR
The location of the 
\fBiconv\fR(1) program, used for encoding
conversions.
.SH NOTES
The man pages produced should be compatible
with most troff implementations and other tools
that process man pages.
Some backwards-compatible 
\fBgroff\fR(1) extensions
are used to make the output look nicer.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve Cheng <\*(T<stevecheng@users.sourceforge.net\*(T>>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The docbook2X manual (in Texinfo or HTML format) fully describes
how to convert DocBook to man pages and Texinfo.
.PP
Up-to-date information about this program
can be found 
at the 
.URL http://docbook2x.sourceforge.net/ "docbook2X Web site"
\&.
.PP
The input to \fBdb2x_manxml\fR is defined by the XML DTD
present at \*(T<\fIdtd/Man\-XML\fR\*(T> in the docbook2X
distribution.
