.\" -*- coding: us-ascii -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH sgml2xml-isoent 1 "3 March 2007" "docbook2X 0.8.8" docbook2X
.SH NAME
sgml2xml-isoent \- Convert SGML to XML with support for ISO entities
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad l
\fBsgml2xml-isoent\fR \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
[\fIsgml-document\fR]
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
'hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsgml2xml-isoent\fR converts an SGML document to XML,
with support for the ISO entities.
This is done by using 
\fBsgml2xml\fR(1) from the
SP package (or 
\fBosx\fR(1) from the OpenSP package),
and the declaration for the XML version of the ISO entities
is added to the output.
This means that the output of this conversion
should work as-is with any XML tool.
.PP
This program is often used for processing SGML DocBook documents
with XML-based tools. In particular, \fBdb2x_xsltproc\fR(1)
calls this program as part of its \*(T<\fB\-\-sgml\fR\*(T>
option. On the other hand, it is probably not helpful for 
migrating a source SGML text file to XML, since the conversion 
mangles the original formatting.
.PP
Since the XML version of the ISO entities 
are referred to directly, not via a DTD, this tool 
also works with document types other than DocBook.
.SH NOTES
The ISO entities are referred using the public identifiers 
\*(T<ISO 8879:1986//ENTITIES//\fI\&...\fR//EN//XML\*(T>. 
The catalogs used when parsing the converted document should 
resolve these entities to the appropriate place (on the local
filesystem). If the entities are not resolved in the catalog, 
then the fallback is to get the entity files
from the \*(T<http://www.docbook.org/\*(T> Web site.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve Cheng <\*(T<stevecheng@users.sourceforge.net\*(T>>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBsgml2xml\fR(1), 
\fBosx\fR(1)
